---
title: "Using YOLO for Object Detection"
layout: post
comments: true
category: Python
---
  
{% raw %}


# Using YOLO for Object Detection #

This post follows through instructions for using [YOLO](https://pjreddie.com/darknet/yolo/){:target="_blank"} (You Only Look Once) with video object detection.  This demonstration was done with a g3.8xlarge Deep Learning AMI (Ubuntu) Version 6.0 (ami-bc09d9c1). The weights for this particular YOLO model were trained on the [COCO](http://cocodataset.org/#home){:target="_blank"} dataset, which consists of 182 different labels.

## Requirements ##

- Python 3.5 or 3.6
- TensorFlow
- openCV

## GitHub Repo ##

- Download GitHub repo from [https://github.com/thtrieu/darkflow]([https://github.com/thtrieu/darkflow){:target="_blank"}. Further instructions for downloading specific sets of weights can be found on the README file of the repo.

## Build the Library ##
- Create a build folder from the location of the repo with the following command

```python
cd darkflow
python setup.py build_ext —inplace
```
  
## Processing a Video ##

Assuming a video called video1 is uploaded in a data folder. You will also need to make sure that you have the proper cfg and weights files. Those can be downloaded from the YOLO website. If using CPU, you can get rid of the GPU flag any the threshold can be changed or removed. For a 1 minute video on a g3.8xlarge machine, it took roughly 10 minutes for the video to fully complile at a rate of 3.04 frames per second.

```python
python flow --model cfg/yolo.cfg --load bin/yolov2.weights --demo data/video1.mov --threshold 0.25 --gpu 1.0 --saveVideo
```

## Results ##

<b>YOLO Example</b>
<video width="520" controls>
<source src="/figure/2018-04-11-yolo-mlb/dee-gordon.mp4">
</video>
Video from MLB.com

<br>

<video width="520" controls>
<source src="/figure/2018-04-11-yolo-chicago/chicago.mp4">
</video>
Walking down Michigan Avenue in Chicago

<br>


{% endraw %}

<script>
  (function(i,s,o,g,r,a,m){i['GoogleAnalyticsObject']=r;i[r]=i[r]||function(){
    (i[r].q=i[r].q||[]).push(arguments)},i[r].l=1*new Date();a=s.createElement(o),
    m=s.getElementsByTagName(o)[0];a.async=1;a.src=g;m.parentNode.insertBefore(a,m)
  })(window,document,'script','//www.google-analytics.com/analytics.js','ga');

ga('create', 'UA-57468410-2', 'auto');
ga('send', 'pageview');
</script>
  
